feat(dev-portal): API composition and packaging (#2664)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/dev-portal/api-catalog-and-packaging.md

1. Create an API package by adding operations and package rate limits. Operations are automatically mapped to Routes using your API's OpenAPI spec or you can create them manually.

### ACE plugin

Previously, when you created an API catalog in Dev Portal and linked the APIs to a Gateway Service, {{site.konnect_short_name}} would automatically apply the {{site.konnect_short_name}} application auth (KAA) plugin automatically. 

API packages uses the ACE plugin instead to manage developer access control to APIs. Unlike the KAA plugin, the ACE plugin can link to control planes to configure access control and create operations for Gateway Services in those control planes. 

### Package rate limits

You can set individual rate limits on an API package as well as operations in that package. Keep the following in mind when configuring rate limits:
* API package rate limits apply across all operations in the API package **cumulatively**, not individually.
* Each Operation in an API Package can additionally have an individual rate limit defined. This rate limit applies simultaneously with the rate limiting being counted at the API Package level.

> * ??? What happens when the Gateway Service or Route has rate limits applied? how do the two interact?

Author: Thanks! I'll get this content added

### Prerequisites

To package APIs with Dev Portal, you need:
* A v3 Dev Portal created in {{site.konnect_short_name}}
* A [Gateway Service](/gateway/entities/service/#set-up-a-gateway-service) and [Route](/gateway/entities/route/#set-up-a-route) added to your control plane
* The following roles:
  * Editor role for APIs
  * Publisher role for the API and API package
* [An API created](/dev-portal/apis/) with an [OpenAPI spec](/dev-portal/apis/#api-specs) associated with it

### Associate a control plane

1. In {{site.konnect_short_name}}, navigate to **Dev Portal** > **APIs** in the sidebar.
1. Click your API.
1. Click the **Gateway** tab.
1. Click **Link gateway**.
1. Select a control plane from the **Control plane** dropdown menu.
1. Select **Link to a control plane**.
1. In the Add the Access Control and Enforcement plugin settings, click **Add plugin**.
1. Click **Link gateway**.

Your operations should now be autogenerated based on how your OpenAPI spec maps to your Routes.

### Assign operations to API packages

1. In {{site.konnect_short_name}}, navigate to **Dev Portal** > **APIs** in the sidebar.
1. Click the **API packages** tab.

> 1. Click **Create API package**.

Reviewer: Note: API Creator role is required for this action

1. Enter a name in the **API package name** field.
1. Enable the Package rate limit and configure your rate limit.
1. Click **Add operations from APIs** in the API operations settings.
1. In the Add API operations pane, click your API and click **Add** next to the operations you want to package.
1. Click **Create API package**. 

### Publish packages to Dev Portal

1. In {{site.konnect_short_name}}, navigate to **Dev Portal** > **APIs** in the sidebar.
1. Click the **API packages** tab.
1. Click your API package.
1. Click **Publish API**.
1. Select your Dev Portal from the **Portal** dropdown menu.
1. Select an auth strategy from the **Authentication strategy** dropdown menu.
1. Click **Publish API**. 

> Your API package will now be published to your Dev Portal.

Reviewer: Could add context that API packages published to the portal behave the same as APIs published to the portal in terms of their display in the API catalog and ability to be registered for by applications. Understood if this is seen as implied.

{% endtable %}
<!--vale on-->

## How API packages work

API packages are composed from operations. Operations allow you to compose REST-style APIs from a combination of the hostname, path, and method that are processed by the control plane. They are used to map between the operations in your API and Gateway Routes. If an OpenAPI spec is added to the API, the operations are autogenerated. 

The following diagram shows an example of how API packages can be composed from operations:

<!--vale off-->
{% mermaid %}
flowchart LR
 subgraph subGraph0["Control plane"]
        1["Billing Gateway Service"]
        2["Flights Gateway Service"]
  end
 subgraph subGraph1["Partners API package"]
        3["POST /flights"]
        4["GET /flights"]
  end
 subgraph subGraph2["Org API package"]
        5["POST /billing"]
        6["GET /billing"]
        7["POST /flights"]
        8["GET /flights"]
  end
    1 --> 5 & 6
    2 --> 7 & 8 & 3 & 4
    style subGraph2 fill:#C8E6C9
    style subGraph1 fill:#BBDEFB
{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

Packaging APIs involves the following steps:

> 1. Create an API and attach an OpenAPI spec.
> 1. Link a control plane (or control planes) for to allow developer consumption. 
> 1. Apply the Access Control Enforcement (ACE) plugin globally.
> 1. Create an API package by adding operations and package rate limits. Operations are automatically mapped to Routes using your API's OpenAPI spec or you can create them manually. Gateway configuration is not directly modified, any unmatched operations will be highlighted to indicate action needed by the Gateway operator.

Reviewer: We will be adding more features for visualizing how operations map to routes in the next iteration. For now I think we should say something more like this:
```suggestion
1. Create an API and attach an OpenAPI spec. Operations from your API's OpenAPI spec should overlap with gateway Routes to ensure requests will be routed to the correct service. Gateway routing configuration is not directly modified by adding operations.
1. Link a control plane (or control planes) for to allow developer consumption. 
1. Apply the Access Control Enforcement (ACE) plugin globally.
1. Create an API package by adding operations and package rate limits.
```

Author: I'll add this!

  end
    1 --> 5 & 6
    2 --> 7 & 8 & 3 & 4
    style subGraph2 fill:#C8E6C9
    style subGraph1 fill:#BBDEFB
{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

Packaging APIs involves the following steps:
1. Create an API and attach an OpenAPI spec. Operations from your API's OpenAPI spec should overlap with Routes to ensure requests will be routed to the correct Service. Gateway routing configuration is not directly modified by adding operations.
1. Link a control plane (or control planes) for to allow developer consumption. 
1. Apply the Access Control Enforcement (ACE) plugin globally.
1. Create an API package by adding operations and package rate limits. Operations are automatically mapped to Routes using your API's OpenAPI spec or you can create them manually. The Gateway configuration isn't directly modified– any unmatched operations will be highlighted to indicate that a user Gateway Manager permissions needs to perform an action.

### ACE plugin

Previously, when you created an API catalog in Dev Portal and linked the APIs to a Gateway Service, {{site.konnect_short_name}} would automatically apply the {{site.konnect_short_name}} application auth (KAA) plugin automatically. 

> API packages uses the ACE plugin instead to manage developer access control to APIs. Unlike the KAA plugin, the ACE plugin can link to control planes to configure access control and create operations for Gateway Services in those control planes. 

Author: ```suggestion
API packages uses the ACE plugin instead to manage developer access control to APIs. Unlike the KAA plugin, the ACE plugin can link to control planes to configure access control and create operations for Gateway Services in those control planes. 

#### Plugin configuration

When you configure the ACE plugin, you must set either `required` or `present` for `match_policy`. This determines how the ACE plugin will behave when a request doesn't match an existing Route.

The following table describes what the `match_policy` values do and when to use each:

{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Setting
    key: setting
  - title: Description
    key: description
  - title: Use case
    key: use-case
rows:
  - setting: |
      `required`
    description: |
      Requires every incoming request to match a defined operation from an API or API package in Dev Portal. If a request doesn't match, ACE rejects the request outright with a 401.
    use-case: "You want to lock down {{site.konnect_short_name}} so that only traffic that is part of an explicitly defined API operation is allowed through."
  - setting: |
      `if_present`
    description: |
      The ACE plugin only engages with a request when it matches an operation. If a request doesn't match, ACE lets the request pass through untouched. This means that non-matching requests aren't rejected, but ACE also won't perform authentication and authorization on them. This allows a request to still be processed by other plugins with a [lower priority](/gateway/entities/plugin/#plugin-priority) than ACE.
    use-case: "You have an environment where some Gateway Services or Routes are governed by Dev Portal–exposed APIs (with ACE), while others are regular Routes that should be left alone."
{% endtable %}

```

Reviewer 2: Fix: 401 -> 404

Author: @gruceo Fixed the status code in my latest commit!

* API package rate limits apply across all operations in the API package **cumulatively**, not individually.
* Each Operation in an API Package can additionally have an individual rate limit defined. This rate limit applies simultaneously with the rate limiting being counted at the API Package level.
* API package rate limits are applied simultaneously with rate limits from other plugins on gateway entities:
  * Requests that are under the current limit for the Service and API Package will be counted towards both.
  * Requests that surpass the rate limit of an API package won't be counted towards rate limits applied from other rate limiting plugins.
  * Requests that surpass the rate limit of other rate limiting plugins are still counted towards the rate limits applied for API packages. This is because the ACE plugin runs before other rate limiting plugins under the default plugin priorities. You can adjust this behavior with [custom plugin priority values](/gateway/entities/plugin/#dynamic-plugin-ordering).

For example, if you have the following rate limits set:
* **API package A**: 10 requests per second
* **Operation 1**: 5 requests per second

> A request that is authorized for Operation 1 will count toward both the rate limit for both the API Package A and Operation 1. So, if one request is sent, the authorized application will have nine requests remaining for API Package A and four requests remaining for Operation 1 for the configured time period (per second).

Reviewer 2: @cloudjumpercat ^

> A request that is authorized for Operation 1 will count toward both the rate limit for both the API Package A and Operation 1. So, if one request is sent, the authorized application will have nine requests remaining for API Package A and four requests remaining for Operation 1 for the configured time period (per second).

Author: @gruceo Sorry I missed this one! I've updated this paragraph in my latest commit with this info.
